---
title: Introducing @loopback/boot for LoopBack 4
date: 2018-02-23T00:00:13+00:00
author: Taranveer Virk
permalink: /strongblog/introducing-boot-for-loopback-4/
categories:
  - Community
  - LoopBack
  - LoopBack 4
---

A LoopBack 4 Application is made up of many different artifacts such as controllers,
repositories, models, datasources, etc. LoopBack 4 uses Dependency Injection to
resolve dependencies on related models so your Application can work as expected.
To levergae Dependency Injection, we must bind these artifacts to the Application context.
A large Application can have tens or hundreds of such artifacts. It is very tedious to repeat
`this.controller(UserController)`, `this.bind(...).to(MyClass)`, etc. that many times.

Enter `@loopback/boot`, one of the newest LoopBack 4 packages. **Boot** is a
conventional bootstrapper that discovers artifacts and binds them to the Application
Context so Dependency Injection can work.

<!-- more -->

All new projects scaffolded using `@loopback/cli`'s `lb4 app` command are
configured to use this package with the conventions implemented by the CLI and
recommended by the team. Artifacts generated by `lb4` commands also follow these
conventions. The recommended conventions are to have artifacts in their own
folder (plural of the type of artifact) and file within the artifact folder should have
names ending with the artifact type as the suffix. Examples:

* `/controllers/login.controller.ts`
* `/models/user.model.ts`
* `/repositories/product.repository.ts`

As of the writing of this blog post, only [Controller](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/Controllers.html) and [Repository](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/Repositories.html) type
artifacts are booted. Other types of artifacts such as Models, DataSources, etc. will
be added eventually.

## Existing Projects

If you already have an existing LoopBack 4 project, you can add support for `@loopback/boot`
as follows:

1. Install the package by running `npm i @loopback/boot`
2. Add `BootMixin` to you Application. _NOTE: You need to import `Booter` and `Binding` types_
3. Set the `projectRoot`. All artifacts are resolved relative to this path
4. Set your project conventions in the Application property `bootOptions`
5. Boot the Application by calling `boot()` before `start()`.

```ts
import { Application } from "@loopback/core";
import { BootMixin, Booter, Binding } from "@loopback/boot";

class MyApplication extends BootMixin(Application) {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.projectRoot = __dirname;
    // Configure Boot Conventions for each Artifact
    this.bootOptions = {
      controllers: {
        dirs: ["controllers"],
        extensions: [".controller.js"],
        nested: true
      }
    };
  }
}

async function main() {
  const myApp = new MyApplication();
  try {
    await myApp.boot();
    await myApp.start();
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(err);
  }
}
```

## Additional Resources

You can learn more about Boot by visiting the following resources.

* [@loopback/boot README](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/blob/master/packages/boot/README.md)
* [LoopBack 4 Docs: Booting an Application](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/Booting-an-Application.html)

## Call for Action

LoopBack's future success counts on you. We appreciate your continuous support and engagement to make LoopBack even better and meaningful for your API creation experience. Please join us and help the project by:

* [Open a pull request on one of our "good first issues"](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/labels/good%20first%20issue)
* [Casting your vote for extensions](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/issues/512)
* [Reporting issues](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/issues)
* [Building more extensions](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/issues/647)
* [Helping each other in the community](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/loopbackjs)
